---
title: New website, who dis?
---

I first launched [my personal website]({{ site.url }}) two and a half years ago. It was the first website I’d ever created from scratch, and I built it in plain old HTML, CSS, and JS to learn as much as I could about web development. No templates, no databases, no Bootstrap. I’d recently made the commitment to become a full-time freelance designer, and I needed to figure out what the hell I was doing!

Fast forward to the start of 2018 and so much has happened since then. I’m still standing as a freelancer, which is an accomplishment in and of itself. Moeko and I started [Sloop Creative](http://www.sloopcreative.com/) in 2016, and have been providing non-profits and small businesses with thoughtful, vibrant design and illustration work since. I designed a bunch of [print publications](/projects/print-publications/) and [book covers](/projects/book-covers). I built an open access [online repository](/projects/apadana/) for a 2,000-page translation of early Buddhist poetry. I experimented with a novel approach to [documenting recipes for breadbaking](/projects/breadbaking/).

And I learned so much. Git, A11y, Sass, Markdown, Liquid, and Jekyll. I’ve become so much more proficient in Sketch, Illustrator, and InDesign, as well as JavaScript and PHP. I've gotten my hands wet in LaTeX, Ruby, and Bash.

During this time, my interests have also crystallized. At one point, I was working towards a PhD and studying Sanskrit and Hindi. A few years in, my interest in entering academia waned, and my curiosity about design and coding began to bud. While I ended up leaving the PhD track, I always felt that I wanted to find a way to re-engage in scholarship and pedagogy in the capacity of a digital specialist. Over the past four years, I’ve worked as an editor and web manager at an [arts publication](http://artinprint.org/), and then as a freelance designer and developer, building the necessary skills and experience. The [Apadāna project](/projects/apadana) epitomizes the type of work I’d like to continue doing: open access, open source, critical, novel, humanistic. I’m eager to continue working in this liminal space between technology and the humanities, and to encounter like minds along the way.

This new website is a reflection of my current values, interests, and skills. It’s built on Markdown and Jekyll. In addition to showcasing some of my work, I’ve added a [blog](/blog/). I’m also crossposting brief [notes](/notes/) from [Micro.blog](https://micro.blog/). Feel free to check out the [repository on Github](https://github.com/dananjohnson/dana-v2). And don’t be a stranger! [Get in touch](mailto:dana@danajohnson.co) if you have a question, comment, or idea for a collaboration.
